someone screaming for help
they've seen shark fins in the water the
lifeguard is waving a purple flag
but it's too late the jellyfish have
taken over
there's a huge wave approaching the
shore at 90 degrees
panic breaks at the beach you have one
chance to save them all with your time
traveler kit
you take your beat survival guide with
you
and push the red button
voila you made it to the beach one hour
before things went wrong
some kids built a huge sand castle they
were digging deep to get more and more
sand
that pit they made right by the water
can turn into a sinkhole
it doesn't fill completely so someone
can twist an ankle if they step
in there sometimes people even fall in
huge sinkholes
the sand fills them back immediately and
feels like concrete thrown at you
you tell everyone around the sand castle
to watch where they step
the spongy sand area here could be
quicksand it forms near riverbanks
marshes and beaches and is 70 water
it seems solid so you check it with a
stick and step on it lightly
it holds the weight if someone doesn't
know how to handle it
they might sink down to the waist the
secret for getting out
is to stay calm and slowly wiggle your
legs out lying on your back
you mark the area with four sticks for
those who don't know the rules
you notice a wave quickly moving at
right angle to the shore
beach survival guide says it's a rip
current they can form in any part of the
world
you tell everyone to stay out of the
water until it's gone
rip current quarters are usually narrow
and not dangerous
but they can get long and wide as a
bowling leg
this beast can pull you in the water
even from the shore
if you get caught in a rip current try
to stay calm to save energy
and come up with a good plan don't try
to fight the current
it'll always win swim parallel to the
shore until you're out of it
if that doesn't work try to scream for
help or wave a hand
if you're trying to save someone out of
a rip current throw them something that
floats
if you go in the water to save them both
of you might need help
an older couple must want some quiet so
they swim closer to the pier
away from the crowd you get in the water
to warn them it's a bad
idea most rip currents form close to
piers
jetties and other structures in the
water but even a small current can carry
you right into that stone construction
you spot a group of divers they're
carrying underwater cameras to take
pictures of marine life
you tell them to watch out for flower
urchins they look like beautiful corals
but in fact have poisonous spines to
scare away their predators
these spines are also dangerous for
humans if you step on any sea urchin
it feels like stepping on nails or glass
some sea urchins also have venomous
bites
some sea snakes have more venom than
cobras
they use it to paralyze fish but will
never attack humans first
sometimes the tide washes them out of
the water they will pretend to be
lifeless
but can still bite out of reflex this
bite can give you some nasty symptoms
the lionfish that lives in the atlantic
ocean gulf of mexico
and the caribbean sea is one of the most
beautiful sea predators
they can sting you by accident with
their cobra like venom
it hurts like the sting of a thousand
bees
some algae blooms also called red tides
can have dangerous natural toxins in
them if you spot black
white green brown purple or red algae
that looks like cottage cheese
thick soup or a film on the water keep
your head and especially mouth and nose
away from it
also take a shower after you get out of
the water to be safe
someone shouting there's a stinging
jellyfish in the water
you talk to the lifeguard to put up the
purple flag
it's an international sign there are
dangerous ocean animals nearby
mostly jellyfish some of them are
harmless
others like box jellyfish grow about the
height of a human
and are super dangerous lion's mane
jellyfish
loves colder water of the pacific and
atlantic oceans
and grows the size of a blue whale if
you measure it with tentacles
it uses them to hunt you take a
loudspeaker and inform
everyone what the purple flag means it's
best to stay out of the water when you
see it
if you must get in the water at least
wear a diving suit to protect your skin
one jellyfish is lying motionless on the
shore you don't let anyone pick it up
it can still sting if that happens you
gotta pour some clean water over your
skin and then top it with vinegar the
heat becomes unbearable
and one family is looking for some
shadow under the coconut tree
you tell them to find a different spot a
coconut is falling off the height of its
tree at a crazy speed
luckily they moved the towel right
before it happened
while the family is looking for a new
spot to park their towel
you remind them to drink plenty of water
it can save you from a heat stroke
they take more lives every year than
floods lightning
hurricane and tornadoes combined plain
water
is the best drink choice for the beach
to avoid having one
a sweet old lady takes out some bread to
feed the seagulls
you run up to her and take the bread to
protect her
when you hand bread to seagulls aloft
they can strike you
they can also hurt you with their bills
or wings by accident as they fly by
if you feed them they can follow you and
raid your bags for more food if you
don't give it to them
so the best you can do is throw all food
remnants in trash cans with lids
to keep the birds at bay two guys are
watching a youtube video about cross sea
it's a rare thing for most parts of the
world and only happens regularly near
one
french island when underwater current
makes the water go one way
and the wind sends it another the waves
run in squares
like a chessboard in the sea cross seas
are super dangerous for
swimmers and can even turn over a large
bow
they form rip currents and powerful ways
the best you can do
if you see it is stay out of the water
a huge wall of foam is moving towards
you it's a shore break
name so because it breaks directly on
the sand or in shallow water with full
force
if you get in its way you might get
seriously hurt
during shore breaks water seems deeper
than it really is
so when you dive in without checking the
depth you can injure yourself even more
sometimes these shore breaks get so big
and powerful
they can drop people to the ground and
carry them into the sea
if that happens and you start freezing
in the water don't try to swim too
quickly to keep yourself warm relax your
arms
control your breathing and move your
limbs as little as possible
take the fetal position it's like
sitting in the water and hugging your
knees
try to keep some part of your body above
the water to save heat
your body temperature can also drop if
you've been in the water for too long
count to ten and then back to one if you
can't do it many times over and over
get out of the water immediately
otherwise you could pass out in the
water
when you get back to the safe shore warm
yourself up with towels
layers of clothing and a hat it's
getting dark and you tell everyone to
move out of the water
you only have one chance in four million
to meet a shark at the beach
but it's more likely to happen at or
after sunset
and before sunrise sharks are most
active at these times
you also have a better chance to spot it
from the distance when it's bright and
the sea is calm
you hear thunder roar somewhere in the
distance
when that happens at the beach it means
you're already in lightning danger zone
the large open space of the beach and
the water is one of the worst places to
live through a storm
everyone's packing and leaving for
safety